Multithreading
           :- It is a process of executing multiple threads simultaneously.
		      It is the concurrent execution of two or more threads to perform multiple tasks at the same time.
		      It is used to obtain the multitasking.
			  It consumes less memory and gives the fast and efficient performance.

Thread
    :- A thread is the smallest unit of execution within a process, sharing the same memory space.
	   It is a lightweight subprocess.
       It is a separate path of execution because each thread runs in a different stack frame.
	   A process may contain multiple threads.
	   Threads share the process resources, but still, they execute independently.

Thread Lifecycle Diagram:-
	         [New] -> [Runnable] -> [Running] -> [Waiting/Blocked] -> [Terminated]
Process
    :- A process is an independent program with its own memory space.

Thread is lightweight and process is heavyweight.

Q.) How can you create thread in Java?
Ans:- A thread can be created by extending the Thread class and implementing the Runnable interfaces and then instantiating the class.

start() :- It is used to begin the execution of a thread.
           It internally calls the run() method.

wait() :- It is used to make a thread wait until another thread signals the change the condition.

notify() :- It is used to wake up one of the threads that are waiting after a call to wait().
         :- Purpose of wake up of a single thread which is waiting at the object's monitor.

notifyAll() :- Purpose of wake up of all the thread which is waiting at the object's monitor.

join() :- It is used to wait for a thread to finish its execution before moving on to the next task.

sleep() :- It is used to pause the execution of a thread for a specified amount of a time.

interrupt() :- It is the proper way to signal a thread to stop in Java.

Synchronization :- It is used to control access to shared resources by multiple threads, prventing concurrent access.

volatile :- The volatile keyword is used to indicate that a variable's value may be modified by different threads

concurrent collection :- They are designed to allow multiple threads to access and modify the collections concurrently without the need for external synchronization.

Q.) Explain the concept of thread safety.
Ans:-It ensures that a piece of code or object can be accessed by multiple threads without causing data corruption and unexpected behaviour.

Daemon Thread :- A thread runs in background, providing services to other threads.
                 It does not prevent the program from terminating if it's the only thread running.

Context Switching :- It refers to the process where the CPU switches from executing one process to another.

concurrency utilities :- It provide a powerful, extensible framework of high-performance threading utilities such as thread pools and blocking queues.

Q.) Why wait(), notify(), notifyAll() are kept ubder object class instead of thread class?
Ans:- They are kept in the object class instead of the thread class because they are related to the object's monitor(lock), not the thread itself.

Q.) Synchronization?
Ans :- Synchronization in Java is a mechanism that controls the access of multiple threads to shared resources, preventing data corruption and race conditions.
       It ensures that only one thread can access a specific block of code or method at a time. This is achieved through the use of locks.
	   Every object in Java has an intrinsic lock (also known as a monitor). When a thread enters a synchronized block or method, it acquires the lock for that object.
	   Other threads attempting to enter the same synchronized block or method will be blocked until the first thread releases the lock.

Q.) Difference between Thread & Runnable?
Ans:- We can Extends Thread class.
      We can Implements the Runnable interfaces, alows multiple inheritance.

Q.) What is a deadlock? How do you prevent it?
Ans:- When two threads wait for each other's lock and neither proceeds.
      Avoid by acquiring locks in the same order.

Q.) Explain ExecutoService and how it works.
Ans:- ExecutorService is a high-level API provided by Java (from java.util.concurrent) for managing and controlling thread execution.
      It decouples task submission from thread management, offering a more flexible and scalable way to handle multithreading.
	  
	  How It Works (Step-by-Step):-
	  
	  1. Create ExecutorServiceL:
	  
	  ExecutorService executor = Executors.newFixedThreadPool(3);
	  
	  2. Submit Tasks:-
	  
	  executor.submit(() -> {
	      System.out.println("Running in thread: " + Thread.currentThread().getName());
	  });
	  
	  3. Shutdown Executor:-
	  
	  executor.shutdown(); // Graceful shutdown

Q.) Real-life scenario using multithreading?
